Add pull provider documentation (#1548)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_configuring-pull-transport.adoc

[id="configuring-pull-provider_{context}"]
= Configuring Remote Execution for Pull Client

By default, Remote Execution uses SSH as the transport mechanism for the Script provider.
However, Remote Execution also offers a pull-based transport option, which communicates with hosts via MQTT.
This is a good option if you are migrating from `katello-agent` which also uses pull-based communication.

If you wish to use Remote Execution with the pull-based transport, run the following `{foreman-installer}` command on each {SmartProxy}:

[options="nowrap" subs="quotes,attributes"]
----

 # {installer-scenario-smartproxy} \
  --foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mode pull-mqtt

----

The mode is configured per {SmartProxy}.
Some {SmartProxies} may be configured to use `pull-mqtt` mode while others use `ssh`.
If this is the case, it is possible that one remote job on a given host will use the pull client, and the next job on the same host will use SSH.

> If you wish to avoid this scenario, configure all {SmartProxies} to use the same mode.

Reviewer: A big +1 for such recommendation (with a text like "Warning: In pull-mqtt mode, clients get subscribed to the SmartProxy they are registered through for job notifications. It is recommended to flip (that setting) to true to ensure the notification gets the right Capsule").

> If you wish to avoid this scenario, configure all {SmartProxies} to use the same mode.

Author: Which setting do you mean?

`Restrict registered smart proxies` under Authentication?
`Fallback to Any Proxy` or `Enable Global Proxy` under Remote Execution?

> If you wish to avoid this scenario, configure all {SmartProxies} to use the same mode.

Reviewer: It is in `Settings -> Content -> Prefer registered through Capsule for remote execution`:

    Prefer using a proxy to which a host is registered when using remote execution

(relatively new(?) setting I dont see in Sat6.10, e.g.)

> If you wish to avoid this scenario, configure all {SmartProxies} to use the same mode.

Author: gotcha, thanks!

After the pull-based transport is set up on each {SmartProxy}, it must also be configured on each host.

> See Configuring_and_Setting_up_Remote_Jobs_admin[Configuring and Setting Up Remote Jobs] in the _Managing Hosts_ guide.

Author: Updated link; hopefully I did it right..

NOTE: The `pull-mqtt` mode works only with the Script provider.

> Ansible and other providers will continue to use SSH.

Reviewer 2: *puts on pedantic hat*

This is somewhat misleading. Other providers I'm aware of are ansible and salt. Ansible uses ssh by default, but can be configured to use other transports per host by setting `ansible_connection` variable. Salt uses a transport based on zeromq by default.

Author: ```
Ansible and other providers will continue to use their default transport settings.
```
Is that better?

Reviewer 2: Sounds good

[id="configuring-pull-provider_{context}"]

> = Configuring Remote Execution for Pull Client

Reviewer 3: Title does not match anchor and file name.

By default, Remote Execution uses SSH as the transport mechanism for the Script provider.
However, Remote Execution also offers a pull-based transport option, which communicates with hosts via MQTT.
This is a good option if you are migrating from `katello-agent` which also uses pull-based communication.

.Procedure

> 	* Enable the pull-based transport on each relevant {SmartProxyServer}:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Enable the pull-based transport on each relevant {SmartProxyServer}:
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
```

[options="nowrap" subs="quotes,attributes"]
----
 # {installer-scenario-smartproxy} \
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mode pull-mqtt
----

The mode is configured per {SmartProxy}.
Some {SmartProxies} may be configured to use `pull-mqtt` mode while others use `ssh`.
If this is the case, it is possible that one remote job on a given host will use the pull client, and the next job on the same host will use SSH.
If you wish to avoid this scenario, configure all {SmartProxies} to use the same mode.

In `pull-mqtt` mode, hosts subscribe to the {SmartProxy} they are registered through for job notifications.
Therefore, it is recommended to ensure that {ProjectServer} sends remote execution jobs to that same {SmartProxy}.

> To do this, in the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer* > *Settings* > *Content*, and set the value of "Prefer registered through {SmartProxy} for remote execution" to *Yes*.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do this, in the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Administer* > *Settings*.
On the *Content* tab, set the value of "Prefer registered through {SmartProxy} for remote execution" to *Yes*.
```

After the pull-based transport is set up on a {SmartProxy}, it must also be configured on each host.

> See {ManagingHostsDocURL}Configuring_and_Setting_Up_Remote_Jobs_managing-hosts[Configuring and Setting Up Remote Jobs] in the _Managing Hosts Guide_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information, see {ManagingHostsDocURL}Configuring_and_Setting_Up_Remote_Jobs_managing-hosts[Configuring and Setting Up Remote Jobs] in _{ManagingHostsDocTitle}_.
```

[id="configuring-pull-provider_{context}"]
= Configuring Remote Execution for Pull Client

> By default, Remote Execution uses SSH as the transport mechanism for the Script provider.

Reviewer 3: what do you mean by "script provider"?

Author: Remote execution has several providers - Script (formerly SSH) and Ansible being the most common. The provider decides which job template is used.

Reviewer 3: Just checked on Foreman 3.3 that "Script" is new. So capitalizing it is IMHO very much correct. 👍

However, Remote Execution also offers a pull-based transport option, which communicates with hosts via MQTT.
This is a good option if you are migrating from `katello-agent` which also uses pull-based communication.

> If you wish to use Remote Execution with the pull-based transport, run the following `{foreman-installer}` command on each {SmartProxy}:

Reviewer: "each" -> "each relevant"? As "Some {SmartProxies} may be configured to use `pull-mqtt` mode while others use `ssh`."

> If you wish to use Remote Execution with the pull-based transport, run the following `{foreman-installer}` command on each relevant {SmartProxy}:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Procedure
* Enable the pull-based transport on your {SmartProxyServer}:
```

[options="nowrap" subs="quotes,attributes"]
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

 # {installer-scenario-smartproxy} \

>   --foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mode pull-mqtt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
--foreman-proxy-plugin-remote-execution-script-mode pull-mqtt
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

----

The mode is configured per {SmartProxy}.

> Some {SmartProxies} may be configured to use `pull-mqtt` mode while others use `ssh`.

Reviewer 3: This sounds a bit weird in a procedure to configure the pull transport.

If this is the case, it is possible that one remote job on a given host will use the pull client, and the next job on the same host will use SSH.
If you wish to avoid this scenario, configure all {SmartProxies} to use the same mode.

> In `pull-mqtt` mode, hosts subscribe to the {SmartProxy} they are registered through for job notifications.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph sounds like a different procedure.

Author: See [above](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/1548/files#r961579453) for some context. I agree it does kind of feel like a different procedure, but it should be done at the same time you configure your {SmartProxies} for pull mode. Given that, what's the best place for this text?

Reviewer 3: You can potentially split the procedure into two. But IMHO this can be done at a later stage.

Therefore, it is recommended to ensure that {ProjectServer} sends remote execution jobs to that same {SmartProxy}.
To do this, in the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Settings* > *Content*, and set the value of "Prefer registered through {SmartProxy} for remote execution" to *Yes*.

> After the pull-based transport is set up on each {SmartProxy}, it must also be configured on each host.

Reviewer: "set up on each (proxy)" -> "set up on a (proxy)"  (as we can have ssh on another proxies, or alter one proxy from ssh to mqtt).

"on each host" -> "on each relevant host" ? To distinguish there might be hosts that will still use ssh mode?

Author: > "set up on each (proxy)" -> "set up on a (proxy)" (as we can have ssh on another proxies, or alter one proxy from ssh to mqtt).

:+1: 

> "on each host" -> "on each relevant host" ? To distinguish there might be hosts that will still use ssh mode?

If a given (proxy) uses pull-mqtt, doesn't that mean that all of its hosts must be configured with the pull client? So I'd propose leaving "each host" as-is.
